---
title: Numba 0.48.0 documentation
tags: Parallel
aside:
  toc: true
---

이 글은 [Numba 0.48.0 (Jan 27, 2020) documentation](http://numba.pydata.org/numba-doc/latest/index.html)를 정리한 글입니다.

<!--more-->
---

# I. Overview
## 1. Numba
**Numba**  
A compiler for Python array and numerical functions written directly in Python
{:.success}

Numba generates **optimized machine code** from pure Python code using the **[LLVM compiler infrastructure](http://llvm.org/)**.  
With a few simple annotations, **array-oriented** and **math-heavy** Python code can be **just-in-time** optimized to performance similar as *C, C++*  and *Fortran*, without having to switch languages or Python interpreters.

## 2. Main features
1. on-the-fly code generation(JIT) (at import time or runtime)
2. native code generation for the CPU and GPU
3. integration with the Python scientific software stack


# II. Installation
    
    $ pip install --ignore-installed numba

Details: [http://numba.pydata.org/numba-doc/latest/user/installing.html](http://numba.pydata.org/numba-doc/latest/user/installing.html)


# III. Compiling Python code with `@jit`
Numba provides several utilities for code generation, but its central feature is the `numba.jit()` decorator.  
Using this decorator, you can mark a function for optimization by Numba’s JIT compiler.

## 1. Basic usage
### 1) Lazy compilation
The **recommended** way to use the `@jit` decorator is to **let Numba decide** when and how to optimize:

```python
from numba import jit

@jit
def f(x, y):
    # A somewhat trivial example
    return x + y
```

### 2) Eager compilation
You can also **tell Numba the function signature you are expecting**. The function f() would now look like:

```Python
from numba import jit, int32

@jit(int32(int32, int32))
def f(x, y):
    # A somewhat trivial example
    return x + y
```

This is useful if you want fine-grained control over types chosen by the compiler (for example, to use **single-precision floats**).  
If you omit the return type, e.g. by writing (int32, int32) instead of int32(int32, int32), Numba will try to infer it for you.  


## 2. Calling and inlining other functions
Numba-compiled functions **can call other compiled functions**.  
**The function calls may even be inlined** in the native code, depending on optimizer heuristics.

```Python
@jit
def square(x):
    return x ** 2

@jit
def hypot(x, y):
    return math.sqrt(square(x) + square(y))
```
The **`@jit` decorator must be added to any such library function**, otherwise Numba may generate much slower code.


## 3. Signature specifications
Explicit `@jit` signatures can use a number of types. Here are some common ones:  
1. `void`
2. `int8`, `uint8`, `int16`, `uint16`, `int32`, `uint32`, `int64`, `uint64`
3. `float32`, `float64`
4. `complex64`, `complex128`
5. `float32[:]`: one-dimensional single-precision array  
`int8[:, :]`: two-dimensional array of 8-bit integers


## 4. Complation options
A number of keyword-only arguments can be passed to the **`@jit`** decorator.  
Details: [`numba.jit()`](https://numba.pydata.org/numba-doc/latest/reference/jit-compilation.html#numba.jit)

### 1) `nopython`(default: `False`)
Numba has two compilation modes: **nopython** mode and **object** mode. The **former** produces **much faster** code, but has limitations that can force Numba to fall back to the latter. To prevent Numba from falling back, and instead **raise an error**, pass **`nopython=True`**.

```Python
@jit(nopython=True)
def f(x, y):
    return x + y
```

### 2) `nogil`(default: `False`)
Whenever Numba optimizes Python code to native code that only works on native types and variables (rather than Python objects), it is **not necessary** anymore to hold Python’s **global interpreter lock (GIL)**. Numba will **release the GIL** when entering such a compiled function if you passed **`nogil=True`**.  

```Python
@jit(nogil=True)
def f(x, y):
    return x + y
```

Code running with the **GIL released** runs **concurrently with other threads** executing Python or Numba code (either the same compiled function, or another one), allowing you to take advantage of multi-core systems. This will **not be possible** if the function is compiled **in object mode**.

When using `nogil=True`, you’ll have to be **wary of the usual pitfalls of multi-threaded programming** (consistency, synchronization, race conditions, etc.).

### 3) `cache`(default: `False`)
To **avoid compilation times** each time you invoke a Python program, you can instruct Numba to write the result of function compilation into a file-based cache. This is done by passing cache=True:

```Python
@jit(cache=True)
def f(x, y):
    return x + y
```

### 4) `parallel`(default=False)
Enables **automatic parallelization** (and related optimizations) for those operations in the function known to have parallel semantics. For a list of supported operations, see Automatic parallelization with `@jit`. This feature is enabled by passing `parallel=True` and **must be used in conjunction with `nopython=True`**:

```Python
@jit(nopython=True, parallel=True)
def f(x, y):
    return x + y
```


# IV. Flexible specializations with `@generated_jit`
Sometimes you want to write a function that has **different implementations depending on its input types**.

## 1. Example
Suppose you want to write a function which returns whether a given value is a **“missing” value** according to certain conventions.  

```Python
import numpy as np
from numba import generated_jit, types

@generated_jit(nopython=True)
def is_missing(x):
    """
    Return True if the value is missing, False otherwise.
    """
    if isinstance(x, types.Float):
        return lambda x: np.isnan(x)
    elif isinstance(x, (types.NPDatetime, types.NPTimedelta)):
        # The corresponding Not-a-Time value
        missing = x('NaT')
        return lambda x: x == missing
    else:
        return lambda x: False
```


## 2. Compilation options
**Same** keyword-only arguments as the **`jit()`** decorator.


# V. Creating Numpy universal functions
Details: [http://numba.pydata.org/numba-doc/latest/user/vectorize.html](http://numba.pydata.org/numba-doc/latest/user/vectorize.html)

